**Rubric**

Page Turner

**Headline**

The Art of the Hollywood Memoir

**Dek**

Accounts of life in Tinseltown reveal as much as they seek to hide.

**Byline**

By Rachel Syme

**Publish Date** 

July 00, 2021

## Introduction 

My romance with Hollywood memoirs began in my early twenties, when I was new to
New York and would spend most Sunday afternoons wandering the aisles of the
Strand bookstore. The “Film and Television” section was a kaleidoscope of
out-of-print treasures, and I found that their contents were even more
outrageous and entertaining than the hammy portraits on their covers. 

The Hollywood memoir is a perfect genre for summertime, when your mind is as
gooey and malleable as a slice of American cheese, because it demands that you
be willing to suspend your disbelief and indulge in dazzling lies. After all,
that is what many Hollywood memoirs are—at least, it is what they were, before
the modern era of public accountability and stroke-of-the-keyboard
fact-checking. The sooner you accept that star stories are full of
embellishments and omissions, invented quotes and one-sided recollections
dictacted to patient ghostwriters, the sooner you’ll come to appreciate them as
the grand and eccentric performances that they are. 

Often, though, these books reveal as much as they hide. Autobiography was for
a long time the best outlet stars had to talk openly about misogyny, racism,
ageism, abuse, and other hideous aspects of life in Hollywood that the industry
would rather ignore. The list compiled here is by no means exhaustive; it’s not
a best-of but a starter pack of sorts. (Confession: I’ve left out men
altogether, though many, including David Niven and Sammy Davis, Jr., have
produced wonderful show-biz memoirs.) Some of the books here feel dated and, at
times, maddening; at least one is completely bonkers. But all are dynamic
artifacts that chart how the movie business has evolved over time and how far it
still has to go. 

I should note that several of the books are out of print and require some
hunting to find—but that’s half the fun. Go to a used bookstore and check the
biography and memoir shelves. These exact Hollywood memoirs may not be there,
but dozens of others will be. Lug a few home. And then, on a sweltering day,
pick one up and give yourself over.
